EXFATCK(8)                                                          EXFATCK(8)



NAME
       exfatck - check and repair an exFAT volume

SYNOPSIS
       exfatck [options] device

DESCRIPTION
       exfatck  will  check an exFAT volume for errors, and optionally correct
       them.  Run exfatck without arguments for a full list of options.

OPTIONS
       Below is a summary of all the options that exfatck accepts.  Nearly all
       options have two equivalent names.  The short name is preceded by - and
       the long name is preceded by --.

       -b, --basic
              Do only a basic file system check or repair. This option  limits
              exfatck  to checking/repairing the boot region, FAT and the root
              directory. All other directories and  allocations  are  ignored.
              This  is  useful  when  you want to do a fast check/repair which
              makes sure that the volume will mount properly and that the root
              directory will be accessible.

       -p, --probe
              Probe  for  an  exFAT  file  system. This runs some tests on the
              device to check if the file system is exFAT.

       -q, --quiet
              Suppresses informational messages. Only  error/warning  messages
              and the final summary is displayed during execution.

       -r, --repair
              Repair on-disk inconsistencies encountered.

       -a, --automatic-repair
              If  the volume is marked dirty, then repair on-disk inconsisten‐
              cies encountered (equivalent to the -r/--repair option).  Other‐
              wise exit immediately with no action.

       -s, --strict
              Turns on strict checking. This includes checking things that are
              not normally required to make  sure  the  volume  follows  exFAT
              specifications.   This  may  increase  the  execution  time  for
              exfatck.

       -t, --timeout SECONDS
              Timeout  in  seconds  before  exfatck  will  abort  the   volume
              check/repair. If specified, this sets an upper limit on the exe‐
              cution time of exfatck. After the timeout occurs,  exfatck  will
              clear all its pending tasks and return as soon as possible.

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose  output. This makes exfatck print more information about
              what it's doing, for instance  which  directory/file  it's  cur‐
              rently processing.

EXIT STATUS
       0: Success. exfatck did what it was instructed to do successfully.

       1: Unknown error. Error came from outside exfatck (libraries, operating
       system kernel, ...).

       2: Invalid arguments. An error was detected when parsing the options.

       3: exFAT volume errors were detected (when checking) or  could  not  be
       repaired (when repairing)

BUGS
       If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem to exfat-
       support@tuxera.com.

AUTHORS
       exfatck was written by Erik Larsson, Tuxera Inc.

AVAILABILITY
       exfatck is part of the Tuxera exFAT package.

SEE ALSO
       exfat-u(8)



Tuxera exFAT 3013.11.8           January 2013                       EXFATCK(8)
