MKEXFAT(8)                                                          MKEXFAT(8)



NAME
       mkexfat - create an exFAT file system

SYNOPSIS
       mkexfat [options] device

DESCRIPTION
       mkexfat  is  used to create an exFAT file system on a device (usually a
       disk or flash partition) or image.  device is the special  file  corre‐
       sponding  to  the  device (e.g.  /dev/sdXX, /dev/block/mmcblk1p1) or an
       image file.

OPTIONS
       Below is a summary of all the options that mkexfat accepts.  Nearly all
       options have two equivalent names.  The short name is preceded by - and
       the long name is preceded by --.

       -a, --alignment ALIGNMENT
              The alignment of  the  different  exFAT  regions,  specified  in
              bytes. For instance if a certain type of flash memory might per‐
              form best if the internal structures are aligned to 4 MiB bound‐
              aries, alignment should be specified as 4194304.

       -c, --cluster-size SIZE
              Set  the  cluster  size  (in  bytes)  of the volume to SIZE. The
              default is to determine optimal cluster size automatically.

       -f, --force
              Allow formatting an exFAT volume for which the  physical  sector
              size  cannot  be  automatically  detected  (for example an image
              file).

       -g, --guid GUID
              Set the volume GUID of the volume to GUID (the default is to not
              set any volume GUID).

       -l, --volume-label STRING
              Set the volume label for the filesystem. The volume label can be
              up to 11 UTF-16 units long, i.e. in most cases 11 characters.

       -s, --sector-size SIZE
              Set the volume sector size (in bytes) to SIZE. The default is to
              detect sector size automatically. Note: This option should prob‐
              ably never be used when  formatting  devices  directly  as  most
              exFAT  drivers  won't  be  able to use an exFAT volume where the
              volume sector  size  doesn't  match  the  physical  sector  size
              (though exFAT/U can in fact do this).

       -v, --verbose
              Makes  mkexfat  emit certain status messages related to the for‐
              matting process.

       --sda-strict
              Forces the formatted volume to adhere to SD  Association  recom‐
              mendations.

       --sda-whole
              Performs  a  whole device formatting, including partition table,
              according to the SD  Association  recommendations.  This  option
              should  only  be used with whole devices (e.g. /dev/mmcblk0) and
              never partitions (e.g. /dev/mmcblk0p1).

       --sda-relax
              Relaxes sanity checks for --sda-strict and --sda-whole to  allow
              formatting  devices that don't comply to the size specifications
              of SD cards to be formatted  according  to  the  SD  Association
              guidelines.

              NOTE:  This  option  is  only  a  modifier  to  --sda-strict and
              --sda-whole and does not do anything on its own.

       --discard
              This option sends a 'discard' command, like TRIM, to the  device
              which will zero all data on it.

BUGS
       If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem to exfat-
       support@tuxera.com.

AUTHORS
       mkexfat was written by Erik Larsson, Tuxera Inc.

AVAILABILITY
       mkexfat is part of the Tuxera exFAT package.

SEE ALSO
       exfat-u(8)



Tuxera exFAT 3013.11.8            August 2012                       MKEXFAT(8)
