FATFSCK(8)                                                          FATFSCK(8)



NAME
       fatfsck - check and repair a FAT volume

SYNOPSIS
       fatfsck [options] device

DESCRIPTION
       fatfsck  will  check  a  FAT  volume for errors, and optionally correct
       them.  Run fatfsck without arguments for a full list of options.

OPTIONS
       Below is a summary of all the options that fatfsck accepts.  Nearly all
       options have two equivalent names.  The short name is preceded by - and
       the long name is preceded by --.

       -b, --basic
              Do only a basic file system check or repair. This option  limits
              fatfsck  to checking/repairing the boot region, FAT and the root
              directory. All other directories and  allocations  are  ignored.
              This  is  useful  when  you want to do a fast check/repair which
              makes sure that the volume will mount properly and that the root
              directory will be accessible.

       -p, --probe
              Probe  for a FAT file system. This runs some tests on the device
              to check if the file system is FAT.

       -q, --quiet
              Suppresses informational messages. Only  error/warning  messages
              and the final summary is displayed during execution.

       -r, --repair
              Repair on-disk inconsistencies encountered.

       -a, --automatic-repair
              If  the volume is marked dirty, then repair on-disk inconsisten‐
              cies encountered (equivalent to the -r/--repair option).  Other‐
              wise exit immediately with no action.

       -s, --strict
              Turns on strict checking. This includes checking things that are
              not normally required to make sure the volume follows FAT speci‐
              fications. This may increase the execution time for fatfsck.

       -t, --timeout SECONDS
              Timeout   in  seconds  before  fatfsck  will  abort  the  volume
              check/repair. If specified, this sets an upper limit on the exe‐
              cution  time  of fatfsck. After the timeout occurs, fatfsck will
              clear all its pending tasks and return as soon as possible.

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose output. This makes fatfsck print more information  about
              what  it's  doing,  for  instance which directory/file it's cur‐
              rently processing.

EXIT STATUS
       0: Success. fatfsck did what it was instructed to do successfully.

       1: Unknown error. Error came from outside fatfsck (libraries, operating
       system kernel, ...).

       2: Invalid arguments. An error was detected when parsing the options.

       3:  FAT  volume  errors  were  detected (when checking) or could not be
       repaired (when repairing)

BUGS
       If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem  to  fat-
       support@tuxera.com.

AUTHORS
       fatfsck was written by Sougata Santra, Tuxera Inc.

AVAILABILITY
       fatfsck is part of the Tuxera FATprogs package.



Tuxera TFATprogs 3014.9.11        March 2014                        FATFSCK(8)
