THFSLABEL(8)                                                      THFSLABEL(8)



NAME
       thfslabel - Display/change the label on an HFS+ file system.

SYNOPSIS
       thfslabel [options] device [new-label]

DESCRIPTION
       thfslabel will display or change the file system label on the HFS+ file
       system located on device.

       If the optional argument new-label is not present, thfslabel will  sim‐
       ply print the current file system label as a UTF-8 string.

       If  the optional argument new-label is present, then thfslabel will set
       the file system label to be the string new-label, given in  UTF-8  for‐
       mat.
       HFS+  file system labels can be at most 255 UTF-16 code units of decom‐
       posed Unicode long; if new-label is longer than 255 UTF-16  code  units
       of  decomposed  Unicode, thfslabel will truncate it and print a warning
       message. Note that the string in new-label will be decomposed automati‐
       cally by thfslabel.

OPTIONS
       Below is a summary of all the options that thfslabel accepts.

       --output-mode=[mode]
              Specify  the  output  mode  when printing the volume label. Cur‐
              rently the supported output modes are raw and composed.
              Raw mode means that the label is converted from UTF-16 to  UTF-8
              without any further transformation. This implies that the output
              will be in decomposed Unicode since  this  is  how  strings  are
              stored in HFS+.
              Composed mode means that the label is converted from the on-disk
              decomposed form into composed Unicode, which is what most  oper‐
              ating systems expect (Mac OS X being the exception).
              The default behaviour (when this option is not given) is the be‐
              haviour of the composed option.

BUGS
       If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem  to  hfs-
       support@tuxera.com.

AVAILABILITY
       thfslabel is part of the Tuxera HFS+ Utilities package.



Tuxera HFS+ Utilities 3014.8.10    Dec 2013                       THFSLABEL(8)
