NTFSCK(8)                                                            NTFSCK(8)



NAME
       ntfsck - check and repair an NTFS file system

SYNOPSIS
       ntfsck [options] device

DESCRIPTION
       ntfsck  will  check and repair an NTFS file system located on device or
       an NTFS image file.

OPTIONS
       Below is a summary of all the options that ntfsck accepts.  Nearly  all
       options  have two equivalent names. The short name is preceded by - and
       the long name is preceded by --.  Any single letter options, that don't
       take  an  argument, can be combined into a single command, e.g.  -fv is
       equivalent to -f -v.  Long named options  can  be  abbreviated  to  any
       unique prefix of their name.

       -a, --automatic-repair
              Repair  the volume if it appears to be in need of a repair. This
              options makes ntfsck exit immediately if the volume  appears  to
              be  in  order  (no  dirty flag set, logfile clean, no hibernated
              Windows session, ...), but otherwise a full repair is performed.

       -c, --fast-check
              Check if volume is dirty then exit. If the volume is dirty  then
              the exit value will be 100.

       -P, --no-progress-bar
              Don't show progress bars.

       -C, --no-alloc-check
              Don't  check  cluster allocations. This option speeds up ntfsck.
              Use this option with caution.

       -O, --no-orpan-check
              Don't check for orphaned files. This option speeds up ntfsck.

       -M, --no-mft-scan
              Don't scan $MFT. This option typically slows down ntfsck.

       -S, --no-sync
              Don't sync NTFS metadata before exit. This option speeds up ntf‐
              sck   however   it's   safe   to  use  only  if  device  is  not
              removed/ejected.

       -F, --file FILE
              Check and repair FILE only. FILE is absolute path to a  file  or
              directory.

       -i, --inode NUMBER
              Correct inode NUMBER only and its children.

       -f, --force
              This  will override some sensible defaults. Use this option with
              caution.

       -h, --help
              Show a list of options with a brief description of each one.

       -V, --version
              Show the version number of ntfsck.

EXIT CODE
       The exit code returned by ntfsck is one of the followings:
              0      - No errors or file system was successfully repaired
              1      - File system errors could not be corrected
              23     - Volume is read-only
              100    - Volume is dirty, needs check (--fast-check was used)

BUGS
       If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem to  ntfs-
       support@tuxera.com.

AVAILABILITY
       ntfsck is part of the Tuxera NTFS package.

SEE ALSO
       mkntfs(8)



Tuxera NTFS Utilities 3014.5.21  October 2012                        NTFSCK(8)
