NTFSLABEL(8)                                                      NTFSLABEL(8)



NAME
       ntfslabel - display/change the label on an NTFS file system

SYNOPSIS
       ntfslabel [options] device [new-label]

DESCRIPTION
       ntfslabel will display or change the file system label on the ntfs file
       system located on device.

       If the optional argument new-label is not present, ntfslabel will  sim‐
       ply display the current file system label.

       If  the optional argument new-label is present, then ntfslabel will set
       the file system label to be new-label.  NTFS file system labels can  be
       at  most  128  Unicode characters long; if new-label is longer than 128
       Unicode characters, ntfslabel will truncate it and print a warning mes‐
       sage.

       It is also possible to set the file system label using the -L option of
       mkntfs(8) during creation of the file system.

OPTIONS
       Below is a summary of all the options that ntfslabel  accepts.   Nearly
       all options have two equivalent names.  The short name is preceded by -
       and the long name is preceded by --.  Any single letter  options,  that
       don't  take  an  argument,  can be combined into a single command, e.g.
       -fv is equivalent to -f -v.  Long named options can be  abbreviated  to
       any unique prefix of their name.

       -f, --force
              This  will  override some sensible defaults, such as not working
              with a mounted volume.  Use this option with caution.

       -h, --help
              Show a list of options with a brief description of each one.

       -n, --no-action
              Don't actually write to disk.

       -q, --quiet
              Reduce the amount of output to a minimum.

       -v, --verbose
              Increase the amount of output that ntfslabel prints.

       -V, --version
              Show the version number, copyright and license for ntfslabel.

BUGS
       If you find a bug please send an email describing the problem to  ntfs-
       support@tuxera.com.

AVAILABILITY
       ntfslabel is part of the Tuxera NTFS package.

SEE ALSO
       mkntfs(8)



Tuxera NTFS Utilities 3014.5.21    Sept 2011                      NTFSLABEL(8)
